This is the first log in this process - I using this as a sort of learning tool for me to re-remeber key concepts and learnings as I go through trying to understand the NES hradware - the 6502 assembly instruction set and writing an emulator.

I'll be honest - this is going to be hard and just like with alot of tech things I've learnt over the years Its extremely daunting - but I want to understand this as I've always found emulation fasting and have wanted to implement one. I've had some time now from my initial commit around how I'm going to solve this puzzle.

Goals for today are to complete the 6502 assembly tutorial
https://skilldrick.github.io/easy6502/

I've figured out the rough path forward with this project - honestly I was feeling a bit lost initially - I read some of the beginners guides on the NESWiki but it was difficult to know what to understand first. After sitting on it for a few days I've realised that what I fundamentally need to do - or at least what I think I need to do is take a NES rom file and read the bytes from said file and convert this into a set of Instructions. This gives me a good starting point.

I need to work out how these rom files are constructed - which are referred to as 'mappers'. I've worked out a fe things - there is a header at the start of the file - this is 16bytes in length and contains a bunch of information around the roms capabilities and how the emulation should proceeded - after that header there is the program rom - I think these are the instructions for defining the game logic and then the character rom - where the sprites are contained.

My initial thing I want to do is 'disassembling' - (where assembling is converting it to binary(hex) and disassembling is the reverse) - an Idea I've got is to take a rom and gets program instructions from a credible emulator - and then test my code against that - if I can get it to have the same instruction set I can continue to actually actioning said program.

